You may not realize it, but inside your container,
by default, if you're using official images, your apps
are running as root in the container.
Root in the container is not the same as root on the host.
Docker definitely constrains what that
container is doing. That's the whole purpose of containers.
That's one of the core tenets of the idea of containers is
that they're limited and they're restricted from the rest
of the system. Root in a container does not
equal root in the host.
However, we want to continue to reduce
the security risk inside containers, and one of the ways to
do that is to run your apps in the container as a non
root user. That means even if someone was able to break
through your app in the container, they wouldn't even be
root inside that container.
They would just be a standard user account with very little
privileges.
The good news here is that the official apps and
the one we're talking about here is the Node image.
The official Node image has a Node user built
in. It's just not enabled by default.
That's mostly due to the various issues
that least privilege can cause in a container when you
don't have full admin rights inside that little
container. That can cause problems.
Things like apt-get won't work or yum packages
won't work, and some other things might not work.
Doing an npm install with the -g won't work.
So, you need to take that into consideration.
I'll get to a demo here in a second, but my advice is
that you always enable this on every image you're using.
In all cases, I've used Node apps.
I've been able to get away with least privilege and
enabling the Node user to run as non root.
And that's great. There's lots of other security benefits
of containers, but we shouldn't just take it for granted,
and we should continue to try to reduce the risk and
use least privilege concepts.
General rules here are running this line
to enable the Node user.
After you've done your apt, or yum or apk package
installs because those are all things that require root.
Then after your npm install -g's,
if you're doing any npm globals, because those also
need root to install globally on the system.
However, you may want to do this before you do the standard
npm install of your application dependencies,
and that kind of depends on how your workflow is going to
behave. The biggest challenges with this setup
is that it will potentially cause permission
issues whether you're in development and trying to do
things in the container, like running npm install
while the app is running, and now you're not really root
anymore, so you have problems with writing files of certain
directories. Or maybe your app itself is expecting
write access to certain directories that it doesn't have
anymore because permissions weren't set up.
So, when you're running apps as root, you have permissions
to everything, so you typically don't have that kind of
problem. But the minute you start using the Node user,
you'll probably see one or two issues and they're all
solvable. It's especially important for you to understand
Linux permissions, how ch mod and ch own
work, or chown chmod.
Those those utilities are important concepts
for understanding how you get write access to certain
places and even read access to certain places.
That way you can set the permissions that your app truly
needs so that that Node user has rights
to what it needs, but nothing else.
Let's look at some commands.
To change the default root user running everything
in a Dockerfile to the Node user, you just
use the stanza user.
It's kind of simple. Since Docker has already created
the Node user in the upstream from image,
you can just use it here by enabling it with that line.
Unfortunately, that user is not the user executing
every type of Dockerfile line after
that line happens.
In other words, only the run command, the cmd
and the entry point command, only those three
commands will behave this Node user
command here, and everything else won't
necessarily do that. One of the big problems that you'll
see in a minute is using the workdir.
The workdir will always create directories with root
permissions, and so you'll need to go behind there, if you
need to change permissions, and manually set those
permissions on your own.
The second line here is a common one for me to use
in order to get around that permissions problem with
workdir where I'm manually creating the directories
I need and then changing those permissions to
the Node user and Node group to make sure that I can
do things like run npm install
and possibly write cache files, or TIM files, that I might
need in there.
Don't worry. There are lots of flexible options here
to get around all these limitations, including when you're
doing local development, if you want to just run something
in the container as the root user, if you
just do a docker compose exec, once the
user Node is in place, it's going to show up as
you being the Node user.
In fact, once you elect to use Node user,
any time you do a docker compose exec by default,
it will make you the Node user.
You'll be in the container as a Node user rather than the
root that you'd expect.
If you need to ever change that, you can always just type
in the -u root with any exec commands
and then you'll be the root user.
That way you can maybe add package commands in there and it
wouldn't deny you access.